- [Instructor] We have built
some data access code to leverage
the power of Spring in accessing data.
Now it's time to start leveraging
the IoC container to actually use it.
Now our little Util program is already using it,
but let's talk about the details of IoC.
So other than answering because Spring does,
I want to talk about
why we should use IoC in general,
and then specifically,
why we should use it with Spring.
So first and foremost,
the IoC container allows you to focus
on the contracts of the interfaces you consume
instead of dealing with the construction,
and management of objects.
It allows you to develop business code only.
Leaving all object construction
to the container itself.
You build intermediate abstractions
in the layers in order to do business,
and share code as appropriate,
and the IoC handles those
intermediate abstractions being dependencies
where necessary.
This will allow you to produce
very, very clean code.
The dependency comes in,
we utilize the dependency in the business method
as it is needed.
So if you haven't picked up yet,
Spring leverages IoC and all that it does.
So let's talk a little bit
about how it works now.
Now first of all,
the IoC container is configured by the developer.
You may have a Legacy XML configuration.
You may see newer Java configuration
with or without component scanning,
and we also have auto configuration.
As the BeanFactory starts up,
Spring skins every bean that will be configured,
and creates an initialization,
and handled to that initialization
in the BeanFactory itself.
Spring then builds a graph of the order
beans must be constructed.
It then goes through a multi-step process
to construct the objects themselves.
Now, during this process,
Singleton instances of the objects
are created and injected as needed
during object construction,
or immediately after,
depending on how dependencies
were defined specifically via setters.
Now Spring maintains the life cycle
of the beans from start to finish,
unless they are scoped not to be.
Now scope isn't something that we will discuss
in this course,
but we do a lot in Spring framework in-depth,
as well as the actual start-up
of the IoC container
in significantly more detail.
But in this course,
just know that everything that we are using
is a Singleton,
meaning thread safety is very important.
And remember that the developer
only has access to the application context,
not the raw BeanFactory.